Feature/m0018 pqt 144 run test suite (#87)
MicroEJ/docs: Tutorials/tutorialRunATestSuiteOnDevice.rst

The explanation can be adapted to run the testsuite on any other
MicroEJ Platform providing:

- An implementation of :ref:`LLFS-API-SECTION` version 1.0.2 in
  ``com.microej.pack#fs-4.0.2``.
- A partial or full :ref:`bsp_connection`.

.. note::

   This tutorial can also be adopted to run other testsuites that the
   FS presented here.

Introduction
------------

This tutorial presents a local setup of the :ref:`platform_testsuite`
for the FS Foundation Library on a concrete device (not on simulator).

In essence, a Foundation Library provides an API to be used by a
MicroEJ Application or an Add-on Library.

.. figure:: ../overview/images/ClassPath_2.png
   :alt: MicroEJ Foundation Libraries and Add-On Libraries
   :align: center

   MicroEJ Foundation Libraries, Add-On Libraries and MicroEJ Application

For example, the Java file system API ``java.io.File`` is provided by
the MicroEJ Foundation Library named ``FS``. The Abstraction Layer of
each Foundation API must be implemented in C in the Board Support
Package.  The Testsuite is used to validate the C code implementation
of the Abstraction Layer.

Import the Testsuite
--------------------

> Import the Testsuite FS from the `Platform Qualification Tools
> <https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools/blob/2.3.0/tests/fs>`__
> into the workspace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to import the Testsuite FS into the workspace from the `Platform Qualification Tools
<https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools/blob/2.3.0/tests/fs>`__:
```

workspace.

Configure the Testsuite
-----------------------

Configure the Platform BSP Connection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Several properties must be defined depending on the type of BSP
Connection used by the MicroEJ Platform.

For a MicroEJ Application, these properties are set using the launcher
of the application.  For a Testsuite, the properties are defined in a
file named ``config.properties`` in the root folder of the Testsuite.
For example,
https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools/blob/2.3.0/tests/fs/java/java-testsuite-fs/config.properties.

See :ref:`bsp_connection` for an explanation of the properties.  See
the comments in the file for a details description of each properties.
The ``microej.testsuite.properties.deploy.*`` and
``target.platform.dir`` properties are required.

Configure Execution Trace Redirection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When the Testsuite is executed, the Testsuite Engine must read the
trace to determine the result of the execution.  To do that, we will
use the :ref:`tool_serial_to_socket` tool to redirect the execution
traces dumped to the XXX COM port.

> The WROVER platform used in this tutorial is a bit particuliar because
> the UART port is already used to flash the device.  Thus, a separate
> UART port must be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WROVER platform used in this tutorial is particular because
the UART port is already used to flash the device. Thus, a separate
UART port must be used for the trace output.
```

Run a Testsuite on a Device
===========================

This tutorial describes all the steps to configure and run a

> :ref:`platform_testsuite` on a device using the `Platform

Author: Fixed by rebasing on top of master.

Qualification Tools
<https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools>`_.

In this tutorial, the target device is the Espressif ESP32-WROVER-KIT
V4.1 board and the File System (:ref:`FS <platform_fs>`) testsuite
will be used as an example.

The tutorial should take 1 hour to complete (excluding the Platform
Getting Started setup).

Intended Audience and Scope
---------------------------

The audience for this document is software engineers who want to
validate a Low Level API port or to understand how to automatically
run a MicroEJ Testsuite on their device.

The following topics are out of the scope of this tutorial:

- How to write test cases and package a Testsuite module. See

>   :ref:`application_testsuite` for this topic.

Author: Fixed by rebasing on top of master.

<https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools/blob/2.3.0/tests/fs>`__:

- Clone or download the `Platform Qualitification Tools project 2.3.0
  <https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools/releases/tag/2.3.0>`__
- Select :guilabel:`File` > :guilabel:`Import...`
- Select :guilabel:`Existing Projects into Workspace`
- Set :guilabel:`Select the root directory` to the directory
  ``tests/fs`` in the Platform Qualification Tools fetched in the
  previous step.
- Ensure :guilabel:`Copy projects into workspace` is checked.
- Click on :guilabel:`Finish`

The project ``java-testsuite-fs`` should now be available in the
workspace.

Configure the Testsuite
-----------------------

Configure the Platform BSP Connection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Several properties must be defined depending on the type of BSP
Connection used by the MicroEJ Platform.

For a MicroEJ Application, these properties are set using the launcher
of the application.  For a Testsuite, the properties are defined in a
file named ``config.properties`` in the root folder of the Testsuite.
For example,

> https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools/blob/2.3.0/tests/fs/java/java-testsuite-fs/config.properties.

Author: Yes it's normal.  Here is the new sentence:

> For example, see this `config.properties <https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools/blob/2.3.0/tests/fs/java/java-testsuite-fs/config.properties>`__ file.

See :ref:`bsp_connection` for an explanation of the properties.  See
the comments in the file for a details description of each properties.
The ``microej.testsuite.properties.deploy.*`` and
``target.platform.dir`` properties are required.

Configure Execution Trace Redirection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When the Testsuite is executed, the Testsuite Engine must read the
trace to determine the result of the execution.  To do that, we will

> use the :ref:`tool_serial_to_socket` tool to redirect the execution

Author: Fixed by rebasing on top of master.

    :guilabel:`Port`.  This port is the same as the one set in
    ``config.properties`` as
    ``microej.testsuite.properties.testsuite.trace.port``.

Configure the Testsuite Specific Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Depending on the Testsuite and the specificities of the device,
various properties may be required and adjusted.  See the file
``validation/microej-testsuite-common.properties`` (for example
https://github.com/MicroEJ/PlatformQualificationTools/blob/2.3.0/tests/fs/java/java-testsuite-fs/validation/microej-testsuite-common.properties)
and the README of the Testsuite for a description of each property.

On the WROVER Platform, the configuration files ``config.properties``
and ``microej-testsuite-common.properties`` are provided in
``{PLATFORM}-configuration/testsuites/fs/``.

In ``config.properties``, the property ``target.platform.dir`` must be
set to the absolute path to the platform.  For example
``C:/P0065_ESP32-WROVER-Platform/ESP32-WROVER-Xtensa-FreeRTOS-platform/source``.

Run the Testsuite
----------------------

To run the Testsuite, right click on the Testsuite module and select
``Build Module``.

> Configure which Tests to Run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the Tests to Run
```

----------------------------

It is possible to exclude some tests from being executed by the Test
Suite Engine.

To speed-up the execution of this tab, let's configure to run only a

> few set of tests.  In the following example, only the classes that

Author: Removed "this tab".  New sentence is:

> To speed-up the execution, let's configure it to run only a small set of tests.

match ``TestFilePermission`` are executed.  This configuration goes
into the file ``config.properties`` in the folder of the testsuite.

.. code:: properties

          # Comma separated list of patterns of files that must be included	
          # test.run.includes.pattern=**/Test*.class
          test.run.includes.pattern=**/TestFilePermission*.class
          # Comma separated list of patterns of files that must be excluded (defaults to inner classes)
          test.run.excludes.pattern=**/*$*.class

Several reasons might explain why to exclude some tests:

> - Iterative development: Test only the Abstraction Layer that is
>   currently being developed.  The full Testsuite must still be ran to
>   validate the complete implementation.
> 
> - Known bugs in the Foundation Library: The latest version of the Test
>   Suite for a given Foundation Library might contains regression
>   tests, or tests for new features.  If the MicroEJ Platform doesn't
>   use the latest Foundation Library, then it can be necessary to exclude
>   the new tests.
> 
> - Known bugs in the Foundation Library implementation: The project
>   might have specific requirements that prevent a fully compliant
>   implementation of the Foundation Library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Iterative development**. Test only the Abstraction Layer that is
  currently being developed.  The full Testsuite must still be executed to
  validate the complete implementation.

- **Known bugs in the Foundation Library**. The latest version of the Test
  Suite for a given Foundation Library might contain regression
  tests or tests for new features.  If the MicroEJ Platform doesn't
  use the latest Foundation Library, then it can be necessary to exclude
  the new tests.

- **Known bugs in the Foundation Library implementation**. The project
  might have specific requirements that prevent a fully compliant
  implementation of the Foundation Library.
```
